CHAPTERS III AND IV of I Corinthians.
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Reading by Simon Wainwright.
The First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, King James Version, Chapter 3.
And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ.
I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for heather too ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal.
For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men?
For while one sayeth, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal?
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed?
Even as the Lord gave to every man, I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase.
So then, neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase.
Now, he that planteth and he that watereth are one, and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor, for we are laborers together with God.
Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building.
According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon.
But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay than that is laid which is Jesus Christ.
Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it,
because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is.
If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.
If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire.
Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy.
Which temple ye are? Let no man deceive himself.
If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God, for it is written, he taketh the wise in their own craftiness.
And again the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. Therefore let no man
glory in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life,
or death, or things present, or things to come. All are yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God.
Let a man sow account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. But with me it is a very small thing,
that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment, yea, I judge not mine own self.
For I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified, but he that judges me is the Lord.
Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light
the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest
the counsels of the hearts, and then shall every man have praise of God.
And these things, brethren, I have in a figure, transferred to myself and to Apollos,
for your sakes, that ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written,
that no one of you be puffed up for one against another.
For who maketh thee to differ from another, and what hast thou that thou dost not receive?
Now, if thou dost receive it, why dost thou glory, as if thou hast not received it?
Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings. Without us, and I would to God,
ye did reign, that we also might reign with you. For I think that God have set forth us,
the apostles, last as it were appointed to death. For we are made a spectacle unto the world,
and to angels, and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ.
We are weak, but ye are strong. Ye are honorable, but we are despised.
Even unto this present hour, we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted,
and have no certain dwelling place, and labor, working with our own hands.
Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we suffer it. Being defamed, we entreat.
We are made as the filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto this day.
I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you.
For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers.
For in Christ Jesus, I have begotten you through the gospel.
Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. For this cause have I sent unto you,
Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you
into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church.
Now some are puffed up as though I would not come to you, but I will come to you shortly,
if the Lord will, and will know not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power.
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. What will ye? Shall I come unto you with
or in love, and in the spirit of meekness?